Synopsis: The national theme of World Teachers’ Day highlights the role of teachers as agents of change in the digital age.

As Cambodia celebrated World Teachers’ Day under the national theme “Teacher is the Catalyst of AI Transformation,” the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (MoEYS) and UNESCO called for greater investment in teachers as key agents of change in the digital age.

At a national event attended by over 1,200 educators and partners, the Ministry and UNESCO reaffirmed that empowering teachers is essential to ensure that AI and digital innovation enhance instead of replace the human heart of education.

The event was presided over by Education, Youth and Sport Minister Hang Chuon Naron and Esther McFarlane, Chief of Education at UNESCO Phnom Penh.

This year’s theme highlights the essential role of teachers in guiding the ethical and effective integration of digital and AI technologies into classrooms.

It serves as a critical reminder that technology in itself does not transform education—it is teachers who make the difference. Placing teachers at the heart of AI transformation reaffirms their role as innovators and champions of inclusive and human-centred learning, supported by digital and AI technologies. This resonates with Cambodia’s national vision articulated in its Pentagonal Strategy – Phase I, in which human development and digital transformation are identified as two of the core pillars to sustainable growth of the country.

In line with the vision, the MoEYS has begun developing Cambodia’s first ICT–AI Competency Framework for Teachers. Supported by UNESCO through the $27 million Strengthening Teacher Education Programmes in Cambodia (STEPCam), funded by the Global Partnership for Education, the framework is guided by UNESCO’s global standards for ICT and AI in education. It will define the competencies teachers need to integrate digital tools and AI into their teaching practices—while preserving the human dimension at the core of learning.

“Teachers are the drivers of Cambodia’s digital transformation. The integration of AI in education will augment teachers’ capability to transform education. By equipping them with the skills to harness digital technology and AI responsibly, they are empowered to unlock new learning opportunities and nurture the next generation of innovators and leaders in a rapidly evolving world.

Teachers can use AI to prepare lesson plans and provide personalised learning to students,” said Naron.

This year’s international theme of “Recasting Teaching as a Collaborative Profession” highlights a complementary vital dimension of teachers as the catalysts for education transformation. It underscores that teaching is not a solitary endeavour, but a profession rooted in collaboration, peer learning, community of practice, and shared responsibility.

McFarlane said, “Teachers are not only adapting to new technologies; they are shaping how these tools are applied to inspire and empower learners to think independently and creatively about the questions, challenges and opportunities they will face in society. With artificial intelligence reshaping education, we must ensure new technologies support and empower teachers, not replace them. By investing in mentoring, research and professional development for teachers, we ensure teachers are at the centre of this evolving landscape.”