Synopsis: Police officer claims AK-47 rifle was discharged by accident when he was struck by the victim’s motorcycle.

The parents of a teenager who was “accidentally” shot dead by a police officer in Kampong Speu province’s Por Angkrong commune on Friday have urged the court to prosecute the officer.

Yet Sitho, 40, and Khai Phary, 37, believe the officer intentionally shot their 17-year-old son, Pha Rayu, and that the AK-47 rifle was not accidentally discharged during a patrol in Kranhoung village.

The suspected shooter has been identified as Captain Try Borin, Chief of the Por Angkrong Commune Police.

“My son never caused anyone trouble. He was not part of any gang. I urge all the authorities to find justice for my son and prosecute the officer according to the law,” said an emotional Phary.

“Please punish him according to the law,” Sitho added.

According to the Rapid Response Team of the Kampong Speu Provincial Police Department, the incident occurred around 10 pm on Friday when a Por Angkrong Administrative Police Force patrol, led by Captain Borin and five other officers, sighted two suspects riding a motorcycle and asked them to stop. But instead, the riders tried to evade the officers, with the two-wheeler colliding with Captain Borin and causing his AK-47 rifle to discharge and fatally shoot Rayu in the chest.

The victim was a resident of Prey Sroul village, Por Angkrong commune, Baseth district.

Following the incident, Captain Borin reported the shooting to the Baseth District police chief and surrendered to the Criminal Division, taking responsibility for his actions and alleged negligence while on duty.

The Rapid Response Team confirmed that Captain Borin was taken into custody at the Kampong Speu Provincial Police station for questioning and legal processing. Authorities said that legal action will be taken and pledged to handle the case fairly to reassure the victim’s family.

Lieutenant Colonel Chhun Veasna, Deputy Chief of Baseth District, confirmed that Captain Borin was arrested after confessing on the night of the incident. He was transferred to the Kampong Speu Provincial Police Station and is expected to be sent to court today.

Lt Col Veasna added that the incident occurred while police were patrolling the commune, and the motorbike allegedly collided with Captain Borin, causing his rifle to accidentally discharge and shoot the teenager.